README.md, before:

# Drawing window

This is a simple window that allows to write a digit in black and white and use a pre-trained Tensorflow lite model to
identify the digit.

![alt text](https://github.com/ManRod2982/drawing_window/raw/master/docs/window_example.png "Mnist window")

# Building the project

The project is built using CMake and it requires a toolchain with GTKMM3 support. In order to generate the toolchain
the following needs to be added to the local.conf file:

```
IMAGE_INSTALL:append = " gtkmm3"
```

Also recommended to add the following to avoid the build crashing due to out of memory errors:
```
BB_NUMBER_THREADS="8"
PARALLEL_MAKE="-j8"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_CPU ?= "50000"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_IO ?= "100000"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_MEMORY ?= "25000"
```

After modifying the local.conf the image and the SDK can be created, to generate the SDK:

```
bitbake imx-image-full -c populate_sdk
```

And to generate the image:

```
bitbake imx-image-full
```
Note that up to 500GB are consumed during the build process.

Once the toolchain has been generated it can be installed as follows:

```
./tmp/deploy/sdk/fsl-imx-xwayland-glibc-x86_64-imx-image-full-armv8a-imx93-11x11-lpddr4x-frdm-toolchain-6.12-walnascar.sh
```

And the image can be flashed onto an sd card as follows:

```
zstdcat imx-image-full-imx93-11x11-lpddr4x-frdm.rootfs.wic.zst | sudo dd of=/dev/mmcblk0 bs=1M conv=fsync
```

To build the project the toolchain needs to be sourced:

```
source /opt/fsl-imx-xwayland/6.12-walnascar-full-gtkmm3/environment-setup-armv8a-poky-linux
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=$OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT/usr/share/cmake/OEToolchainConfig.cmake
cmake --build build/window
```

And the target binary will be built for ARM64, now it can be simply copied onto the target by `scp` or just copy it to the sd card
on a Linux file system:

```
sudo cp build/window /media/user/root/root/
```

Boot the target and you should be able to execute the binary
```
.window
```

# Dependencies

This project uses CMake 3.10 and requires a toolchain for the ARM64 (see above) with GTKMM3 and TFLite support.

```
sudo apt install cmake
```

# License

This software is available under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Refactor application and enable TFLite model
Refactor the application to condense the TFLite related logic to a
single class that initializes the interpreter and manages the inference
logic.

Allow the ability to pass the model and delegate path through the
command line for ease of testing with different models.

Remove quantization step and instead select the data from the cairo
surface directly based on the type used.

XNN models use float32 and Ethos models require quantized int8 models.

README.md, after:

# Drawing window

This is a simple window that allows to write a digit in black and white and use a pre-trained Tensorflow lite model to
identify the digit.

![alt text](https://github.com/ManRod2982/drawing_window/raw/master/docs/window_example.png "Mnist window")

# Building the project

The project is built using CMake and it requires a toolchain with GTKMM3 support. In order to generate the toolchain
the following needs to be added to the local.conf file:

```
IMAGE_INSTALL:append = " gtkmm3"
```

Also recommended to add the following to avoid the build crashing due to out of memory errors:
```
BB_NUMBER_THREADS="8"
PARALLEL_MAKE="-j8"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_CPU ?= "50000"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_IO ?= "100000"
BB_PRESSURE_MAX_MEMORY ?= "25000"
```

After modifying the local.conf the image and the SDK can be created, to generate the SDK:

```
bitbake imx-image-full -c populate_sdk
```

And to generate the image:

```
bitbake imx-image-full
```
Note that up to 500GB are consumed during the build process.

Once the toolchain has been generated it can be installed as follows:

```
./tmp/deploy/sdk/fsl-imx-xwayland-glibc-x86_64-imx-image-full-armv8a-imx93-11x11-lpddr4x-frdm-toolchain-6.12-walnascar.sh
```

And the image can be flashed onto an sd card as follows:

```
zstdcat imx-image-full-imx93-11x11-lpddr4x-frdm.rootfs.wic.zst | sudo dd of=/dev/mmcblk0 bs=1M conv=fsync
```

To build the project the toolchain needs to be sourced:

```
source /opt/fsl-imx-xwayland/6.12-walnascar-full-gtkmm3/environment-setup-armv8a-poky-linux
cmake -B build -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=$OECORE_NATIVE_SYSROOT/usr/share/cmake/OEToolchainConfig.cmake
cmake --build build/window
```

And the target binary will be built for ARM64, now it can be simply copied onto the target by `scp` or just copy it to the sd card
on a Linux file system:

```
sudo cp build/window /media/user/root/root/
```

Boot the target and you should be able to execute the binary, the application requires:

- Model path: `-m model_path`

and has two optional parameters:
- Delegate library path: `-d delegate_path`
- Verbosity, without this option verbosity is disabled: '-v'

The following are some examples.

Tensorflite model, no quantization and no delegate, hence XNN will be used:
```
./window -m cnn.tflite -v
```
Ethos model with the ethos delegate and verbosity enabled
```
./window -m cnn_quant_vela.tflite -d /usr/lib/libethosu_delegate.so -v
```

# Dependencies

This project uses CMake 3.10 and requires a toolchain for the ARM64 (see above) with GTKMM3 and TFLite support.

```
sudo apt install cmake
```

# License

This software is available under the MIT license.
